---
title:   "Features"
bg:      green
color:   black
style:   center
fa-icon: asterisk
---

## Canvas

The primary means of representing any given site is through performing sketching and other 2D drawing procedures within a virtual plane. We define a *canvas* to represent such plane in 3D space. Since each canvas is only means to define a plane to perform 2D drawing and, in theory, is infinite in its extent, we created its representation as a finite bounding rectangle which embraces all the containing elements (e.g., strokes, polygons, etc.). Such representation makes it easy to see the canvas orientation in 3D. Moreover, the canvas can be positioned and rotated in 3D space using CAD-like tools for rotation and offset. 
{: .left}

In order to denote what canvas the user is about to draw on, each canvas has a state which can be: *current*, *previous* or the *rest*. The information on the state is transferred through the color of canvas bounding rectangle, e.g., magenta - for the current, purple - for the previous and gray for the rest of canvases. Each canvas has a *pickable area* -i.e., when clicking on it with the mouse, the canvas gets selected and becomes *current*, while the previously selected canvas changes its state to *previous*, and the previously previous canvas takes a status of the *rest*.
{: .left}

## 2D entity

Any element that can be drawn within a given canvas is called a 2D *entity*, and these are the types of the entities: stroke, line segment, photo (textured rectangle) and polygon. Depending on the type of the structure, the entities should be used in combination, e.g., stroke would suit the best to define weathered and partial structures while line segment would work the best when doing the reconstruction of the rigid structures with clearly defined features, the photo entity serves exclusively as documentation piece while polygon can help to create occlusion to avoid having the look of wired structure that may becomes confusing once the complexity grows.
{: .left}

## Bookmark

A *bookmark* is defined as a saved camera position with fixed camera parameters (e.g., focal length) with an attached state of the scene graph (e.g., visibility of each of the canvas and transparency levels of each of the photographs, etc.). Like any type of CAD system, the software supports the change of the current position by means of zoom, rotation and pan. The bookmarks come to be useful in cases when the user depends on the photographic documentation in order to introduce changes by means of drawing into the 3D model. For example, when user is working with the scene using two photographs, it is possible to change views from one photo to another in order to verify the scene structure from the both views. 
{: .left}